In the rMATS hands-on session we looked at the differences between liver and skin tissues. For this problem, we will look at the differences between heart and skin tissues. On the HPC cluster's scratch storage, you will find an incomplete splicing analysis in the folder `/N/scratch/mbreese/rMATS_homework`. In this analysis, we are comparing 5 heart samples and 4 skin samples. FASTQ files have been downloaded and aligned to the GRCh38p14 genome (with Gencode v49 gene annotations) using STAR. The BAM files are in the `align/` folder.

Please complete the differential splicing analysis using rMATS. For splicing analysis, the delta-PSI (or IncLevelDifference) is analogous to fold-change in a differential expression analysis. For the skipped exons identified by rMATS(SE.MATS.JCEC.txt file), plot a volcano plot with the delta-PSI (IncLevelDifference) on the x-axis and the -log10(FDR) on the y-axis. Please highlight all significant events with an FDR<0.05 and an absolute delta-PSI >0.2 (IncLevelDifference >0.2 or <-0.2). 

Additionally, please include a sashimi plot showing any differential splicing in the 3' end of the ACTN1 gene. You can make this plot with either IGV or the rmats2sashimiplot program. Because it can be difficult to interpret a sashimi plot with many samples, you can choose to select a representative heart and skin sample to use. You may find it helpful to look in the region around chr14:68,877,000-68,880,200. Setting minimum junction coverage values in IGV can make the plots easier to interpret.

You may it helpful to refer back to the tutorial on GitHub here: https://github.com/compgenlab/G788-rMATS. Please contact Dr. Marcus Breese (mbreese@iu.edu), if you have questions.
